= Installing Mysql on Centos 6.3 =

== Step 1: Installing Remi Repository ==
## Install Remi & Epel Repository on RHEL/Centos 6.3-6.0 - 64 Bit ##
rpm -Uvh http://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/6/x86_64/epel-release-6-8.noarch.rpm
rpm -Uvh http://rpms.famillecollet.com/enterprise/remi-release-6.rpm 

== Installing Mysql 5.530 ==
## Installing on RHEL/Centos 5-6 ##
yum --enablerepo=remi,remi-test install httpd mysql mysql-server

== Starting / Stoping & MySQL 5.5.30 ==

## Enable Apache and Mysql on Run-Levels ##
chkconfig --levels 235 httpd on
chkconfig --levels 235 mysqld on


## Apache Commands ## 
/etc/init.d/httpd start
/etc/init.d/httpd stop
/etc/init.d/httpd status

## Mysql Commands ## 
/etc/init.d/mysqld start
/etc/init.d/mysqld stop
/etc/init.d/mysqld status

== Mysql Secure Installation ==

`/usr/bin/mysql_secure_installation`

{{{
    NOTE: RUNNING ALL PARTS OF THIS SCRIPT IS RECOMMENDED FOR ALL MySQL
      SERVERS IN PRODUCTION USE!  PLEASE READ EACH STEP CAREFULLY!
 
 
In order to log into MySQL to secure it, we\'ll need the current
password for the root user.  If you\'ve just installed MySQL, and
you haven\'t set the root password yet, the password will be blank,
so you should just press enter here.
 
Enter current password for root (enter for none): 
OK, successfully used password, moving on...
 
Setting the root password ensures that nobody can log into the MySQL
root user without the proper authorisation.
 
Set root password? [Y/n] Y
New password: 
Re-enter new password: 
Password updated successfully!
Reloading privilege tables..
 ... Success!
 
 
By default, a MySQL installation has an anonymous user, allowing anyone
to log into MySQL without having to have a user account created for
them.  This is intended only for testing, and to make the installation
go a bit smoother.  You should remove them before moving into a
production environment.
 
Remove anonymous users? [Y/n] Y
 ... Success!
 
Normally, root should only be allowed to connect from 'localhost'.  This
ensures that someone cannot guess at the root password from the network.
 
Disallow root login remotely? [Y/n] Y
 ... Success!
 
By default, MySQL comes with a database named 'test' that anyone can
access.  This is also intended only for testing, and should be removed
before moving into a production environment.
 
Remove test database and access to it? [Y/n] Y
 - Dropping test database...
 ... Success!
 - Removing privileges on test database...
 ... Success!
 
Reloading the privilege tables will ensure that all changes made so far
will take effect immediately.
 
Reload privilege tables now? [Y/n] Y
 ... Success!
 
Cleaning up...
 
 
 
All done!  If you\'ve completed all of the above steps, your MySQL
installation should now be secure.
 
Thanks for using MySQL!

}}}

==  Connect to Mysql database (localhost) with password ==

`mysql -u root -p`

== Set up remote access ==

{{{
## CREATE DATABASE ##
mysql> CREATE DATABASE dbname;
 
## CREATE USER ##
mysql> CREATE USER 'user'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'password123';
 
## GRANT PERMISSIONS ##
mysql> GRANT ALL privileges on *.* TO 'user'@'%' with grant option;
 
##  FLUSH PRIVILEGES, Tell the server TO reload the GRANT TABLES  ##
mysql> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;

}}}
you can replace % with ipaddress and *.* with user.dbname if desired
% and * are wild cards

== Allow IP addresses ==
` vim /etc/my.cnf`
under [mysqld]
`bind-address = * `
save
restart mysql
`/etc/init.d/mysqld restart`

== Test Connection  ==
`mysql -h hostname -u username -p password`

== To Update Users or further grants ==

To list users:

`select useost from mysql.user;`

To show privileges:

`show grants for 'user'@'host';`

To change privileges, first revoke. Such as:

`revoke all privileges on *.* from 'user'@'host';`

Then grant the appropriate privileges as desired:

`grant SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE ON `db`.* TO 'user'@'host';`

Finally, flush:

`flush privileges;`

The !MySQL documentation is excellent:

http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/user-account-management.html


_sources_: 
* http://www.tecmint.com/install-apache-mysql-php-on-redhat-centos-fedora/
* http://wiki.r1soft.com/display/CDP3/Allowing+Remote+Connections+to+MySQL+Instance

