= NPD Meeting =

== General ==

The format of the meeting will change. we are re-structuring the groups for
better productivity. 
Starting next week we will start official sprints for 2 weeks (Mondays), where the NPD
will be held at the end of each sprint. The NPD meeting will be officiated by
Sam and mostly higher level discussions will take place. 

We will initiate weekly scrums where only the developers in charge of the
project or particular parts of the project will be involved (Tuesdays). This will allow the
scrum to stay tight and consise. Shahin will be running the scrums.

Finally, daily tech standups are help within the npd team to report on progress
and difficulties. Any further implementation discussions can break out into tech
talks if necessary.




== Tech ==

* Tech is working on finalizing the "technical debt" involved to get the project
  up. Some include setting up amazon instance as our production servers as well
  integration and finalizing configuration for our development and staging
  environments
* Sam is policing the backlog currently in Rally and will work with shahin to
  priortize and plan implementation for sprints.

== Business ==

* Sam is working on getting the MVP for the profiles together by the end of this
week. This will allow us plan a better implementation strategy.

* Adam and Vida are gathering functionality requirements for Rialto.
    - Some considerations are to either acquire a competing product ( Easy
      Shift) or Contract a team to implement the code.
    - Vida is also working on gathering the taxonomy of user cases.
    -  Sam will send out the final requirements once it has bee finalized.
